Power Virtual Server with VPC landing zone - as PowerVS workspace deployment


The PowerVS workspace deployment of the Power Virtual Server with VPC landing zone creates VPC services and a Power Virtual Server workspace and interconnects them.
A proxy service for public internet access from the PowerVS workspace is configured. You can optionally configure some management components on VPC (such as an NFS server, NTP forwarder, and DNS forwarder).
IBM Cloud® Power Virtual Servers (PowerVS) is a public cloud offering that an enterprise can use to establish its own private IBM Power computing environment on shared public cloud infrastructure. PowerVS is logically isolated from all other public cloud tenants and infrastructure components, creating a private, secure place on the public cloud. This deployable architecture provides a framework to build a PowerVS offering according to the best practices and requirements from the IBM Cloud.


Creating a Power Virtual Server
To create and configure an IBM® Power Systems™ Virtual Server, complete the following steps.
Creating a Power Virtual Server workspace
1. Log in to the IBM catalog with your credentials.
2. In the catalog's search box, type Power Virtual Server and click the Workspace for Power Virtual Server tile.
3. Click Create workspace.
4. Specify a name for your workspace and choose a data center where you'd like to deploy your Power Virtual Server instance.
5. Click Create. You are redirected to the Workspaces page where you can select your desired or existing workspace.
Configuring a Power Virtual Server instance
To begin, create a Power Virtual Server workspace and select a workspace.
1. Log in to the IBM catalog with your credentials.
2. In the catalog's search box, type Power Virtual Server and click the Workspace for Power Virtual Server tile.
3. Click Select workspace on the left navigation under Workspace of the Power Virtual Server user interface to select from a list of previously created workspace. If you do not have a workspace, click Create a workspace.
4. Click Virtual server instances.
5. Click Create instance. If you select more than one instance under Number of instances, you are presented with additional options.
6. Choose an existing SSH key or create one to securely connect to your Power Virtual Server.
7. Complete the Boot image fields as instructed by your organization. When you select Boot image, the Power Virtual Server user interface allows you to select boot images from a set of available stock images or from a custom image in your image catalog. Custom images are images that you have imported from IBM COS or created from a PVM instance (VM) capture. When you select a stock image, you must also select the storage type (tier) and the storage pool selection. For more information, see Storage tiers.
If you select AIX as the boot image, the Power Virtual Server user interface provides you with an option to configure the VM instance for epic workload. For more information on epic, see configuring a VM for EPIC workloads.
If you select IBM i as the boot image, the Power Virtual Server user interface provides you with an option to include the following licenses to your VM instance: IBM i Cloud Storage Solution, IBM i Power HA, and Rational Dev Studio for IBM i. Adding a license increases the service cost. The selected licenses are injected to your VM instance. You can install specific solutions on your VM instance, and the licenses are automatically set. If you want to use these licensed programs on your IBM i VM instance, you must order these licenses through Power Virtual Server. You cannot use existing licenses in your VM instance.
Cloud Optical Repository (COR) is a virtual image that can be deployed and used as a Network File Server (NFS) to perform various IBM i tasks that require media. This virtual optical image includes a collection of the media necessary for various IBM i tasks, for all supported IBM i releases. With the COR image deployed, a second Power Virtual Server Instance can be deployed on the same VLAN that is set up as the client and pointed to the COR (target) NFS Server Instance. For more information on COR images, see Cloud Optical Repository.
8. Select your Machine type, the number of Cores, the amount of Memory (GB) and whether you'd like a Dedicated processor, Uncapped shared processor, or Capped shared processor. When using an AIX stock image as the boot volume, a console session is required for the initial setting of the root user password. Without completing this step, SSH login appears as being disabled. For more information, see How to create a new AIX VM with SSH keys for root login.
9. You can use the user interface to set the affinity policies for storage pools only when the total number of VMs in your account is less than 100. If your account has more than 100 VMs, then you must use the CLI or API to set the volume affinity policies.
Select one of the following Storage pool options:
   * Auto-select pool: Use this option to allow the system to automatically select a storage pool for the storage tier with sufficient capacity.
   * Affinity: Use this option to identify the storage pool that must be used to place the boot volumes based on an existing PVM instance (VM) or storage volume from your account. The new storage volumes for the VM will be placed in the same storage pool where the affinity object resides. If you are using a PVM instance as the affinity object, the storage pool that is selected is based on the PMV instance's root (boot) volume.
   * Anti-affinity: Use this option to identify one or more storage pools that you want to exclude from getting selected to place the boot volumes based on one or more existing PVM instances (VMs) or storage volumes from your account. While choosing a storage pool to create the custom image storage volumes, the storage pools in which the list of anti-affinity object(s) reside will not be selected. If you are using PVM instances as the anti-affinity objects, the storage pools are excluded depending on each PVM instance’s root (boot) volume that you specified.
To learn more about the flexible tier offering of Power Virtual Server, see: Storage tiers
For more information about affinity and anti-affinity policy, see What does it mean to set an affinity or anti-affinity rule?.
   10. Finally, define your Network interfaces by adding a public network, private network, or both. When adding an existing private network, you can choose a specific IP address or have one auto-assigned.
   11. Accept the Terms of Use and click Create instance to provision a new Power Virtual Server. To view your boot images, go to Boot images after you provision the instance.
Dedicated host
The dedicated host feature on IBM Power Virtual Server significantly expands the range of computing options available by providing the ability to provision a dedicated host for your exclusive use. Dedicated hosts are metered by the hour for the entire capacity of the host.
A dedicated host provides an additional flexibility to create virtual server instances, control their placement, and utilize the unique shared processor pool capabilities that are offered by Power Virtual Server. With dedicated hosts, you can easily optimize your cloud infrastructure by utilizing single tenant servers to manage software licensing costs while increasing isolation from other users in a cloud environment.
Visit the pricing page to learn more about the pricing for dedicated hosts.
The dedicated host provides the following features:
   * Reserve a host server (IBM Power S922 or S1022) for your exclusive use. All cores and memory on the host are provisioned for your use.
   * Flexibly create virtual server instances and place them on the dedicated host.
   * Create shared processor pools on the dedicated host and flexibly manage resource utilization including the Virtual Processor (VP) to Entitled Capacity (EC) ratio up to 20:1.
Reusing Volume names or VM names in Power Virtual Servers
You can deploy a Power Virtual Server VM by specifying any name. If you want to delete that VM and deploy a new VM with the same name, you must allow 1 hour between deleting the original instance and creating a VM by using the same name again.
For example, you create a VM with the name TEST-VM and you delete this VM later. The name "TEST-VM" is not immediately available for reuse. Before you attempt to use the name TEST-VM again, you must allow 1 hour to pass after the VM was deleted.
Implementing SAP NetWeaver and SAP HANA in the Power Virtual Server environment
You can deploy SAP NetWeaver on an AIX or Linux® operating system, and SAP HANA on Linux operating system, in your Power Virtual Server environment. You must consider several SAP-specific infrastructure requirements to run SAP applications on Power Virtual Servers. For more information, see Planning your deployment and Deploying your infrastructure.
On IBM Power Systems E980 that are running in a multiple VM environment with at least one SAP HANA production system, you can deploy up to sixteen VMs per physical server with dedicated or dedicated-donating processor cores. Each concurrently running VM instance must be configured according to the workload and must fulfill the SAP HANA Hardware Configuration Check Tool (HWCCT) key performance indicators (KPIs). You must also consider the minimum number of CPU cores and memory size of VMs as described in SAP Note 2188482. For more information see, SAP support Launchpad. You must have an SAP ID to access this web page.
Configuring a VM for Epic workloads
You can configure your virtual server instance to deploy Epic workloads when you select AIX as your operating system.
To configure a VM instance for Epic workloads, select the Configure for Epic workloads checkbox on the Boot image tile. You can verify whether the deployed VM supports Epic workloads by checking the corresponding VM details page. On the VM details page, the Deployment type field must be se to Epic.
Non-epic workloads: For these workloads, storage volume can be Tier 1 or Tier 3. Supported core types are Shared uncapped, shared capped, or dedicated. Machine type can be S922 or E980.
Epic workloads: For these workloads choose Tier 1 storage volume, dedicated core type and E980 machine type.
In the VM details page, for the VMs on which Epic workloads are supported, you must not create or attach volumes from Tier 3 to avoid performance issues.
You can choose to configure a VM for Epic workloads only when you select AIX as your operating system. The other conditions that apply are as follows:
   * Epic workloads is supported on AIX 7.2, and later. You cannot choose AIX 7.1.
   * Supported storage volume is Tier 1. You can change or attach Tier 3 storage volume. This lead, to performance issues.
   * Supported machine type is E980. You cannot select S922.
   * Supported core type is dedicated. You can switch to other core type, but it might lead, to performance issues.
   *